he Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has charged five individuals with bribery and money laundering in relation to the suspected payment of bribes to win contracts within the UK construction sector.

Two former senior executives, Robb Simms Davies and Nigel Wilson, are charged with four counts of bribery and two counts of money laundering for suspected offences between 2014 and 2016. Two other men, Trevor Wright and Roger Dewhirst, are charged with receiving the suspected bribes.

The SFO has also charged Dawn Dewhirst with two counts of money laundering.

These individuals were charged at an earlier date.

All individuals made their first appearance at Southwark Crown Court today, Tuesday 17 August 2021.

The case has been listed for trial, to commence 12 September 2022.

The SFO opened its investigation in February 2017.

The SFO fights complex financial crime, delivers justice for victims and protects the UK’s global reputation as a safe place to do business. It investigates and prosecute the most serious or complex cases of fraud, bribery and corruption. The SFO also recovers the proceeds of crime worldwide.

Under Director Lisa Osofsky, the SFO secured convictions against 21 individuals and companies, recovered over £1 billion of illicit gains, and secured eight agreements with companies including Serco, G4S and Airbus, compelling them to pay penalties and reform to prevent future law-breaking

As this is an active case, the SFO can provide no further comment.

Notes to editors:

These are active proceedings and the strict liability rule in the Contempt of Court Act 1981 applies.
Rob Simms Davies and Nigel Wilson are each charged with four counts of bribery, contrary to s1 and s2 of the Bribery Act 2010 and two counts of money laundering, contrary to s.328 (1) of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.
Trevor Wright and Roger Dewhirst are each charged with two counts of bribery, contrary to s2(1) and s2(3) of the Bribery Act 2010.
Dawn Dewhirst is charged with two counts of money laundering, contrary to s.328 (1) of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.
The case was adjourned for a substantive PTPH on 20th September.